# Camie - A Crowd Counting System

The project started as a final project for the Le Wagon Data Science Bootcamp, Berlin. It was inspired by the "Seoul Halloween Crowd Crush" on 29th of October, killing 158 people and leaving 196 people severely injured.

Camie is a crowd counting system that uses computer vision and deep learning techniques to count the number of people in an image captured by a camera. It consists of three components: a camera software, an API containing a deep learning model, and a website where the user can enter a threshold.

# Links
Presentation link: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/121awjsGFOArAVqH8oirAxPE_YVvGwQvd-O2A9twWgmM/edit?usp=sharing

# Team members
Tithi Rakshit : https://github.com/rakshittithi
Seungmi Park : https://github.com/ellasmpark
Leonardo Opitz : https://github.com/leonardoopitz

# How it works
* Camera software: The camera software captures images of crowds every 10 seconds and sends them to the API for processing.

* API: The API contains a deep learning model that analyzes the images and counts the number of people in them. The model is trained on both sparse and dense crowds to ensure a holistic approach to the problem. YOLOv5s and CSRNet are respectively used for sparse and dense crowds.

* Website: The website allows the user to enter a threshold, which is the maximum number of people allowed in the crowd. If the count generated by the API is more than the threshold, an alert is thrown to notify the user.
        
# Data Source
The data has been taken from :https://paperswithcode.com/dataset/shanghaitech

# Deep Learning Algorithm

* YOLOv5s: Detects objects by creating bounding boxes around them. This was used for training the model on sparse crowds.

* CSRNet: Detects objects by creating Density maps. This was used for training the model on dense crowds.



# Usage
Enter the threshold in the input field on the website.
The camera software will capture an image of the crowd and send it to the API for processing.
The API will count the number of people in the image and compare it with the threshold.
If the count is more than the threshold, an alert will be thrown on the website.


    
    

